# ***Power_Plant_Turbine_Energy_Prediction***

A combined cycle power plant comprises gas, steam turbines, and heat recovery steam generators.In this plant,electricity is generated by gas and steam turbines combined in one cycle.We have to model the energy generated as a function of exhaust vacuum and ambient variables and use that model to improve the plant's performance.

The Dataset have five Columns.

1. Temperature
2. r_humidity
3. exhaust_vacuum
4. energy_production
5. amb_pressure

## ***Exploratory Data Analysis***

Performed data exploeartion of features available in energy dataset.
check for data set shape, null/NaN values, plotted paiplot for checking corelation of features.
Also Plotted boxplot of each feature for outliers deltection.
for showing relationship between Dependent i.e. energy prediction and rest of features plotted individually on
regression plot.

## ***Feature Engineering and Feature Selection***

PCA is used for reduce dimensionality reduction of data set to overcome overfitting and underfitting.
Here scaling of data is important beacause units of all features are different and also to fit a standard normal distribution.
The features are classified into Dependant and Independant features. `energy_prediction` is Dependant feature in this and Independant features are `Temperature`, `r_humidity`, `exhaust_vacuum`, `amb_pressure`

### ***Train test split***

Dependant and Independant data partioned into train test set with test size of 20%. for ease of model evaluation purpose.

## ***Model Building***

Hence objective is to get an specific value as prediction, accordance to supervised regression analysis
by using Linear Regression, Ensemble technique Random Forest regressor, Decision tree regressor, Ridge & Lasso Regression Models are build For making predictions.

## ***Model Evaluation***

Model is evaluated on basis of cost function `Mean absolute`, `coeficient of determination` (R2 Score).

## ***Model Selection***

Among all models build in model building on basis of model evaluation coeficient of determination is 0.96 there fore Random Forest regressor model is selected for making real time predictions.

## ***Deployment*** [app_link](https://gas-steam-turbine-energy-prediction.streamlit.app/)

Using Streamlit Framework model is deployed for real time application.
